

GSTREAMER 1.16 RELEASE NOTES


GStreamer 1.16 has not been released yet. It is scheduled for release
around September 2018.

1.15.0.1 is the unstable development version that is being developed in
the git master branch and which will eventually result in 1.16.

The plan for the 1.16 development cycle is yet to be confirmed, but it
is expected that feature freeze will be around August 2017 followed by
several 1.15 pre-releases and the new 1.16 stable release in September.

1.16 will be backwards-compatible to the stable 1.14, 1.12, 1.10, 1.8,
1.6, 1.4, 1.2 and 1.0 release series.

See https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/releases/1.16/ for the latest
version of this document.

_Last updated: Tuesday 20 March 2018, 01:30 UTC (log)_


Introduction

The GStreamer team is proud to announce a new major feature release in
the stable 1.x API series of your favourite cross-platform multimedia
framework!

As always, this release is again packed with new features, bug fixes and
other improvements.


Highlights

-   this section will be completed in due course


Major new features and changes

Noteworthy new API

-   this section will be filled in in due course

New Elements

-   this section will be filled in in due course

New element features and additions

-   this section will be filled in in due course

Plugin and library moves

-   this section will be filled in in due course

Plugin removals

-   this section will be filled in in due course


Miscellaneous API additions

-   this section will be filled in in due course

GstPlayer

-   this section will be filled in in due course


Miscellaneous changes

-   this section will be filled in in due course

OpenGL integration

-   this section will be filled in in due course


Tracing framework and debugging improvements

-   this section will be filled in in due course


Tools

-   this section will be filled in in due course


GStreamer RTSP server

-   this section will be filled in in due course


GStreamer VAAPI

-   this section will be filled in in due course


GStreamer Editing Services and NLE

-   this section will be filled in in due course


GStreamer validate

-   this section will be filled in in due course


GStreamer Python Bindings

-   this section will be filled in in due course


Build and Dependencies

-   this section will be filled in in due course


Platform-specific improvements

Android

-   this section will be filled in in due course

macOS and iOS

-   this section will be filled in in due course

Windows

-   this section will be filled in in due course


Contributors

-   this section will be filled in in due course

... and many others who have contributed bug reports, translations, sent
suggestions or helped testing.


Bugs fixed in 1.16

-   this section will be filled in in due course

More than XXX bugs have been fixed during the development of 1.16.

This list does not include issues that have been cherry-picked into the
stable 1.16 branch and fixed there as well, all fixes that ended up in
the 1.16 branch are also included in 1.16.

This list also does not include issues that have been fixed without a
bug report in bugzilla, so the actual number of fixes is much higher.


Stable 1.16 branch

After the 1.16.0 release there will be several 1.16.x bug-fix releases
which will contain bug fixes which have been deemed suitable for a
stable branch, but no new features or intrusive changes will be added to
a bug-fix release usually. The 1.16.x bug-fix releases will be made from
the git 1.16 branch, which is a stable branch.

1.16.0

1.16.0 is scheduled to be released around September 2018.


Known Issues

-   The webrtcdsp element is currently not shipped as part of the
    Windows binary packages due to a build system issue.


Schedule for 1.18

Our next major feature release will be 1.16, and 1.15 will be the
unstable development version leading up to the stable 1.16 release. The
development of 1.15/1.16 will happen in the git master branch.

The plan for the 1.16 development cycle is yet to be confirmed, but it
is expected that feature freeze will be around August 2017 followed by
several 1.15 pre-releases and the new 1.16 stable release in September.

1.16 will be backwards-compatible to the stable 1.14, 1.12, 1.10, 1.8,
1.6, 1.4, 1.2 and 1.0 release series.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

_These release notes have been prepared by Tim-Philipp MÃ¼ller._

_License: CC BY-SA 4.0_
